What happen when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

  .git folder is created in the path where the command ran.
  all the meta-data on the project will be saved there from now on.
  we need it to follow the changes in the directory of the project and by that
  the project it self.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

  It helps you break one actual change in the working directory into smaller
  logical changes in the form of commits, even though you may already made
  those changes in the actual project you can still choose to commit them bits
  by bits to the repository, by that, seeing smaller changes in your git log.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

  Before committing you could run "git diff --staged" and see only the changes
  you are about to commit. When you see those it's easier to see if all the
  changes you are about to commit are logically related. If something is off
  it should pop up to your eye right away.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

  When you need to set different configurations for development and production.
  When you work on new feature and don't want to risk breaking your stable
  version.
  When you work in a team on unrelated features and only want to combine your
  code once a week, you could each work on a different branch.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

  Actually I'm not entirely sure this question is valid. Since diagrams actually
  visualizing the branches structure for me there isn't much to answer here.
  That been said, they mostly help in chronological understanding of what
  happened when.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

  The result is a new commit that points to both of the branches that were
  merged.
  When you follow the new commit stream down the diagram you will find all the
  commits that will be in the new branch log.
